---
layout: post
title:  "AeroBear - Unmanned Autonomous Systems Competition"
date:   2019-09-06 12:00:00 -0400
---

## Introduction

The competition, rather with a lengthy name - <a href="https://www.auvsi-suas.org" nofollow>Association For Unmanned Vehicle Systems International -
Student Unmanned Aerial Systems Competition</a>, requires students to design, integrate, report on, and demonstrate a UAS
capable of autonomous flight and navigation, remote sensing via onboard payload
sensors, and execution of a specific set of tasks.

## Motivation
This competition is UAVs@Berkeley’s first foray into an official engineering competition. This will raise
the level of the organization's dedication to a more serious position locally and nationally. In the past
few years UAVs@Berkeley has developed a significant base of knowledge and skills,
SUAS competition will give us an opportunity to show that we can synthesize all of these
advancements and create a functional high level project.

## Project Description

* Hardware - The team will construct a working model, develop a payload delivery method, build
an auto launch system, and create CAD models of all parts using Fusion 360. The team will
install that all the electronics i.e. servos, batteries, motors, flight control systems, sensors.
* Software - The team will develop systems for the aircraft to fly autonomous missions, perform
static and dynamic obstacle avoidance, identify targets on the ground, and release a payload
precisely on target
* Reports - The reports for the competition need to be written by teams then compiled. This can be
done by a team as this will be significant work and will include filming and editing.


<!--<div class="video-wrapper">
	<div class="video-responsive">
		<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EP_dnBTCZg0?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
	</div>
</div>
-->

